Case Study:

Fitness trackers and monitors have become increasingly popular and play an 
important part in aiding the everyday person to become responsible for their own 
health and fitness. According to Fortune Business Insights, in 2020 the global fitness 
tracker market was worth over £29billion and is forecast to grow to over £91billion by 
2028.
The owner of My_hEalth has realised that there is a gap in the market for an 
effective data integration app which provides a visually attractive interface for health 
and fitness related metrics that can be collected from a multitude of devices. There is 
currently a competitive race to be the first to bring such a well integrated application 
to the market, and it needs to work on all mobile platforms in addition to being able to 
collect data from all popular devices and existing software providers, including FitBit, 
Garmin, Whoop, Google Fit, Apple, MyFitnessPal and many more. The owner is 
aiming for the application to be able to prompt the wearer at key points (e.g. “Drink 
more water!” or “You need to rest today” etc.) as well as provide the ability to 
automatically send health related data to healthcare professionals and insurers. 
Its unique selling point will be the industry-leading integration and sharing, which 
relies on data integrity, availability, accuracy etc. and must be very carefully 
protected in order to comply with legislation. The application is in the late stages of 
development and has been created securely by design through collaboration with 
industry experts. The owner has invested very large sums of personal money, and 
there are early investors pushing for a strict release deadline. The app will offer a 
limited free service but for full integration and insights customers will need to pay a 
monthly subscription. A small portion of this monthly fee will be paid back to the 
partner manufacturers/software providers in return for the ability to use their data.
Currently the development team is small (8 people). However, the owner now needs 
to step up production in order to hit the agreed deadlines, and has decided to extend 
the team by employing another four full time developers and a sales and marketing 
lead who also has good experience in data security.
To date the team have been working from home but once the team expands they will 
need to locate to a central office where they can work together, although it is 
intended that working from home will be permitted for a proportion of the working 
week.
Encouraging manufacturers to share data for testing the app integration has been 
very challenging, and some have expressed a concern that the data governance of 
My_hEalth is not as transparent or robust as it should be, and as a result have been 
reluctant to share real data. Moving forward, the team have been advised to produce 
a set of key documentation and processes to reassure partner manufacturers. In 
addition, one of the largest investors has also expressed a concern over similar 
issues and has threatened to withdraw their funding. The lure of such an exciting 
application has kept them interested to this point, and the team need to act fast.
Page | 3
The team have already taken some initial cyber security training but 
they understand more will be required. There is also a need to ensure 
a formal audit trail of processes, responsibilities and operations.
It is intended that the application will import/collect, process and store the following 
types of data:
Heart rate
Heart rate variability
Resting heart rate
Peak heart rate
Average heart rate
Heart rate zones
Calories consumed
Calories burned
Sleep metrics (time, type (e.g. REM, light etc.)
Activity type (including recovery such as massage therapy)
Activity time
Location
Ambient temperature
Skin temperature
Respiration rate
Weight
Body mass
Steps
Distance travelled (e.g. run, walk, cycle, swim etc.)
GPS route data
Floors climbed
Intensity minutes
Day strain level
Morning recovery level
Day stress level
Menstrual tracker
Water consumed
Vitamins/minerals consumed
Blood oxygen level
Postural data (if a web cam is connected whilst working at a desk)
Usual sleep and wake times
Usual eating times
Device type and location (e.g. wrist band)
Profile information (e.g. date of birth, address etc.)
Timezone
IP address
Location
It is intended that healthcare reports will/could utilise all of the above data and the 
team would like to ensure that the ability to collect additional data (expand data types 
etc.) is already built into the design of the application.
Page | 4
You may need to make a number of assumptions for this case study, 
so you must ensure that you include these in your assessment to help 
justify your decision making.

A summary of ethical, social, legal and regulatory compliance issues relating to this 
case study, to include clear information on all applicable laws and industry best 
practice (such as ISO27K).  The summary should demonstrate an understanding of 
the differences between ethical and legal considerations. It should include a clear list 
of controls you plan to implement with justification for each.  [35 marks]
Guide: 2000 words
To include a comprehensive list of all pertinent legislation and ethical and 
social issues with clear controls identified and justified
To include clear links between issues identified, suggested controls and 
associated legislation/standards
To include an indication of consequences to the organisation in the event of 
non-compliance